In this lesson, we're going to look at how
to create functions that have more than
one parameter.
So, let's get started.
What we're gonna do is, we're going to
write, a function to
convert temperatures from either
Fahrenheit to
Celsius or from Celsius to Fahrenheit.
So, we're gonna call this program
tempconv.py.
What I'm gonna do first is write, single
functions that convert from one scale to
the others.
So the first thing we're gonna do is
write, a
function that converts from Farenheit to
Celsius, using just one parameter.
And then we're gonna modify a new function
that will take two parameters.
So to do the fahrenheit to Celsius
conversion, we simply provide a single
parameter temp.
And then in our return statement, we take
temp minus 32 degrees times 5
9ths and that'll give us a Celsius
temperature given a fahrenheit temperature
as the argument.
Then we'll turn around and write
the other conversion function, Celsius to
Fahrenheit.
And that formula is the temperature times
9 5ths, plus 32 degrees.
So here we have two functions that we
could use to go
from one scale to the other, but what we
probably would like is
one function that would let us perform
either conversion, by prompting the
user to enter a second argument, a scale
that they wanna convert to.
So we're gonna call that function convert.
The two parameters will be, the
temperature,
and the second parameter is to scale.
So the way we'll write that is we're going
to say if to scale dot lower because we
wanna make sure it's in lowercase is equal
to
c, then we're gonna call the f to c
function.
With the temperature, since we already
have the
function written, we might as well use it.
And there's absolutely no problem with the
function body calling in another function.
In fact, that's probably a very good way
to write code, if you could do that way.
So, if the two scale argument is not c.
Then it must be f.
Then we'll call the c to f function with
the temperature, to get a conversion that
we want.
So, we can test this program by having the
user enter a temperature,
then we can ask them to enter the scale to
convert to.
I actually made a little mistake, need to
convert
this to int, so we'll do that right here.
Then we can say, converted temp equals
convert
temp scale, so there's our two arguments,
and then we can say print.
Temp, converted, temp, scale, to display
the results.
So let's exit and save the program, and
we'll call it.
So let's go from farenheit to Celsius.
So we'll enter, boiling point at farenheit
is 212, we wanna convert to Celsius.
And so that gives us 100, which is
correct.
212 Fahrenheit is 100 Celsius.
Let's run it again.
This time let's go from freezing, which is
0 Celsius, to 32 Fahrenheit.
So, to review,.
When we want to write a function with
multiple parameters, in the parameter
list we simply list out the parameters
putting a comma between each of them.
So if we had a function with a third
parameter we'd put
a comma here and then add a parameter,
whatever we need to do.
Then when we call the function, our
arguments are also.
Delimited with the comma so that the
comma separates the first argument from
the second
argument and we have to make sure that our
arguments are in the right order.
So the first number that has to convert,
has to be a numeric
temperature and the second argument has to
be a string that represents the scale.
So with that, we're finished with this
lesson on multiple parameters, and we're
ready to
move to the next lesson, where we're going
to talk about functions that return
boolean values.
Sometimes they're called predicate
functions, and we often
use them as helper functions within larger
programs.
We'll look at how to write those functions
in the next lesson.